readme.md, before:

The experiments can be conducted on a Linux machine.

## Get Artifact
- Create a directory named `workspace` and open a terminal there
- Clone the project repository: `git clone git@github.com:LavaOps/Seq2ParDiff.git`

## Install Libraries and Tools

- `mkdir .lib && cd .lib`

- CVC4
    - `wget https://github.com/CVC4/CVC4-archived/releases/download/1.8/cvc4-1.8-x86_64-linux-opt`
    - `mv cvc4-1.8-x86_64-linux-opt cvc4`
    - `chmod +x cvc4`
- Z3
    - `wget https://github.com/Z3Prover/z3/releases/download/z3-4.13.0/z3-4.13.0-x64-glibc-2.31.zip`
    - `unzip z3-4.13.0-x64-glibc-2.31.zip`
    - `mv z3-4.13.0-x64-glibc-2.31 z3`
    - Check binary works: `./z3/bin/z3 --version`
- JDK 17
    - `wget https://builds.openlogic.com/downloadJDK/openlogic-openjdk/17.0.13+11/openlogic-openjdk-17.0.13+11-linux-x64.tar.gz`
    - `tar -xvf openlogic-openjdk-17.0.13+11-linux-x64.tar.gz`
- CIVL
    - `wget https://vsl.cis.udel.edu/lib/sw/civl/1.22/r5854/release/CIVL-1.22_5854.tgz`
    - `tar -xzvf CIVL-1.22_5854.tgz`
    - Open file .lib/CIVL-1.22_5854/bin/civl
    - Replace `/opt/CIVL-1.22_5854/lib/civl-1.22_5854.jar` by `<your-path-to-workspace>/.lib/CIVL-1.22_5854/lib/civl-1.22_5854.jar`
- Clang
    - `wget https://github.com/llvm/llvm-project/releases/download/llvmorg-18.1.8/clang+llvm-18.1.8-x86_64-linux-gnu-ubuntu-18.04.tar.xz`
    - `tar -xvf clang+llvm-18.1.8-x86_64-linux-gnu-ubuntu-18.04.tar.xz`
- libtinfo5_6.3-2
    - `wget http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/n/ncurses/libtinfo5_6.3-2ubuntu0.1_amd64.deb`
    - `dpkg-deb -x libtinfo5_6.3-2ubuntu0.1_amd64.deb libtinfo5_6.3-2`
- Update PATH variable
    - Open file Seq2ParDiff/paths.sh and update the `LIB_PATH` at line 3 
    - `cd Seq2ParDiff`
    - `source paths.sh`
    - `java -version`
    - `civl config`
- Install other dependencies
    - `sudo apt install python3-venv gcc cloc` (For latest version of gcc, you need to build it from source (optional).)
    - `python3 -m venv .venv`
    - `source .venv/bin/activate`
    - `pip install pandas progressbar2`


## Dataset Preprocessing
If you want to start from the scratch, delete the two dataset directories: autoparllm and dataracebench, from the project directory.
Then, follow the below steps for preprocessing. You don't need to do this if you want to execute differential testing on the preprocessed datasets.

### AutoParLLM

#### Get Dataset
- Download the AutoParLLM dataset from `https://github.com/quazirafi/AutoParLLM/blob/main/datasets/full-dataset.zip`
- Unzip and rename `full-dataset` to `autoparllm` and keep it under Seq2ParDiff

#### Format Dataset (optional)
- From Seq2ParDiff directory: `find autoparllm -name "1.c" | xargs clang-format -i --style="{IndentWidth: 4}"`

#### Remove Duplicate Files
- Find duplicate files and save the result in `duplicate_files.log`
    - Use function: preprocess.py::find_duplicate_files()
- Remove the duplicates: preprocess.py::remove_duplicates()

#### Remove Files with Empty Parallel Blocks
- Find files with empty parallel block
    - From Seq2ParDiff directory: `./empty_parallel_blocks.sh <dataset> <filename> > data/<dataset>/empty_parallel_blocks.log`
        - Replace \<dataset\> by dataset name, i.e., autoparllm
        - Replace \<filename\> by filename where we want to look for empty parallel block, i.e., 1.c
- Delete the files and directories: preprocess.py::remove_files_with_empty_blocks()

#### Rename Directories
After removing duplicate files and files with empty parallel block, rename
file directories from 1 to number of files. Also, save the renaming maps,
the old and new directory names, to `rename_dir_map.log` for future reference.
- Use function: preprocess.py::rename_directories()

#### Fix Compilation Errors
Compile dataset files and check if there is any compilation error.
Fix the compilation errors, if any, in the source code files.
- Sequential
    - Compile dataset: sequential.py::compile()
    - Fix compile errors if any, according to `seq_compile_fails.log`
- Parallel
    - Compile dataset: parallel.py::compile()
    - Fix compile errors if any, according to `par_compile_fails.log`

#### Add printfs to Files without Output
We need program output for differential testing. Therefore, the programs 
should print the results that they calculate and store in different 
variables. Some C programs do not output anything and we cannot 
compare the results between the sequential and parallel executions 
without any output.
- Execute programs as sequential: sequential.py::execute()
    - The output is saved to config.seq_log_file for each program
- Find the programs, if any, that do not print output: preprocess.py::find_empty_log_files()
    - It saves the result in `empty_log_files.log`
- Add print statements to the files according to `empty_log_files.log` 


### DataRaceBench
- Get the DataRaceBench dataset from `https://github.com/LLNL/dataracebench/tree/v1.4.1/micro-benchmarks`
- Keep the micro-benchmarks directory under Seq2ParDiff and rename it to dataracebench
- Delete direcotories: polybench, utilities and benchmarkList.md file from dataracebench

#### Preprocess Dataset
- Use function: preprocess.py::preprocess_dataracebench()

## Differential Testing
- Sequential execution: `python3 sequential.py`
- Parallel execution: `python3 parallel.py`

## Execute CIVL for datasets
- Open file civl.sh and update line 22 with correct path (first part) and dataset name (last part with autoparllm or dataracebench)
- `chmod +x civl.sh`
- For each dataset, execute `./civl.sh`

## Execute ARCHER for datasets
- Open file archer.sh
- Update lines 21 with correct path
- Update line 30 with correct path (first part) and dataset name (last part with autoparllm or dataracebench)
- `chmod +x archer.sh`
- For each dataset, execute `./archer.sh`

## Generate Reports
- Generate execution results of Seq2ParDiff, CIVL and ARCHER
    - `python3 log_parser.py`
    - `python3 civl.py`
- Result files are located under data/<datasetname> directory (i.e., data/autoparllm).
    - Sequential execution (non-determinism): diff_test_seq.csv, diff_test_seq_fails.log
    - Parallel default threads: diff_test_without_env.csv, diff_test_without_env_fails.log
    - Parallel fixed threads: diff_test_with_env.csv, diff_test_with_env_fails.log
    - ARCHER result: archer.csv
    - CIVL result: civl.csv

Commit message:

Updated readme with directory structure info

readme.md, after:

This repository contains source code and data for "Differential Testing for Sequential to Parallel Transformations" published at SC Workshops 2025.

## Directory Structure
- **autoparllm** and **dataracebench**: two datasets the experiments were conducted on
- **data**: experimental data of the two datasets
- **RQ-Data**: analysis results for the RQs


The experiments can be conducted on a Linux machine.

## Get Artifact
- Create a directory named `workspace` and open a terminal there
- Clone the project repository: `git clone git@github.com:LavaOps/Seq2ParDiff.git`

## Install Libraries and Tools

- `mkdir .lib && cd .lib`

- CVC4
    - `wget https://github.com/CVC4/CVC4-archived/releases/download/1.8/cvc4-1.8-x86_64-linux-opt`
    - `mv cvc4-1.8-x86_64-linux-opt cvc4`
    - `chmod +x cvc4`
- Z3
    - `wget https://github.com/Z3Prover/z3/releases/download/z3-4.13.0/z3-4.13.0-x64-glibc-2.31.zip`
    - `unzip z3-4.13.0-x64-glibc-2.31.zip`
    - `mv z3-4.13.0-x64-glibc-2.31 z3`
    - Check binary works: `./z3/bin/z3 --version`
- JDK 17
    - `wget https://builds.openlogic.com/downloadJDK/openlogic-openjdk/17.0.13+11/openlogic-openjdk-17.0.13+11-linux-x64.tar.gz`
    - `tar -xvf openlogic-openjdk-17.0.13+11-linux-x64.tar.gz`
- CIVL
    - `wget https://vsl.cis.udel.edu/lib/sw/civl/1.22/r5854/release/CIVL-1.22_5854.tgz`
    - `tar -xzvf CIVL-1.22_5854.tgz`
    - Open file .lib/CIVL-1.22_5854/bin/civl
    - Replace `/opt/CIVL-1.22_5854/lib/civl-1.22_5854.jar` by `<your-path-to-workspace>/.lib/CIVL-1.22_5854/lib/civl-1.22_5854.jar`
- Clang
    - `wget https://github.com/llvm/llvm-project/releases/download/llvmorg-18.1.8/clang+llvm-18.1.8-x86_64-linux-gnu-ubuntu-18.04.tar.xz`
    - `tar -xvf clang+llvm-18.1.8-x86_64-linux-gnu-ubuntu-18.04.tar.xz`
- libtinfo5_6.3-2
    - `wget http://security.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/n/ncurses/libtinfo5_6.3-2ubuntu0.1_amd64.deb`
    - `dpkg-deb -x libtinfo5_6.3-2ubuntu0.1_amd64.deb libtinfo5_6.3-2`
- Update PATH variable
    - Open file Seq2ParDiff/paths.sh and update the `LIB_PATH` at line 3 
    - `cd Seq2ParDiff`
    - `source paths.sh`
    - `java -version`
    - `civl config`
- Install other dependencies
    - `sudo apt install python3-venv gcc cloc` (For latest version of gcc, you need to build it from source (optional).)
    - `python3 -m venv .venv`
    - `source .venv/bin/activate`
    - `pip install pandas progressbar2`


## Dataset Preprocessing
If you want to start from the scratch, delete the two dataset directories: autoparllm and dataracebench, from the project directory.
Then, follow the below steps for preprocessing. You don't need to do this if you want to execute differential testing on the preprocessed datasets.

### AutoParLLM

#### Get Dataset
- Download the AutoParLLM dataset from `https://github.com/quazirafi/AutoParLLM/blob/main/datasets/full-dataset.zip`
- Unzip and rename `full-dataset` to `autoparllm` and keep it under Seq2ParDiff

#### Format Dataset (optional)
- From Seq2ParDiff directory: `find autoparllm -name "1.c" | xargs clang-format -i --style="{IndentWidth: 4}"`

#### Remove Duplicate Files
- Find duplicate files and save the result in `duplicate_files.log`
    - Use function: preprocess.py::find_duplicate_files()
- Remove the duplicates: preprocess.py::remove_duplicates()

#### Remove Files with Empty Parallel Blocks
- Find files with empty parallel block
    - From Seq2ParDiff directory: `./empty_parallel_blocks.sh <dataset> <filename> > data/<dataset>/empty_parallel_blocks.log`
        - Replace \<dataset\> by dataset name, i.e., autoparllm
        - Replace \<filename\> by filename where we want to look for empty parallel block, i.e., 1.c
- Delete the files and directories: preprocess.py::remove_files_with_empty_blocks()

#### Rename Directories
After removing duplicate files and files with empty parallel block, rename
file directories from 1 to number of files. Also, save the renaming maps,
the old and new directory names, to `rename_dir_map.log` for future reference.
- Use function: preprocess.py::rename_directories()

#### Fix Compilation Errors
Compile dataset files and check if there is any compilation error.
Fix the compilation errors, if any, in the source code files.
- Sequential
    - Compile dataset: sequential.py::compile()
    - Fix compile errors if any, according to `seq_compile_fails.log`
- Parallel
    - Compile dataset: parallel.py::compile()
    - Fix compile errors if any, according to `par_compile_fails.log`

#### Add printfs to Files without Output
We need program output for differential testing. Therefore, the programs 
should print the results that they calculate and store in different 
variables. Some C programs do not output anything and we cannot 
compare the results between the sequential and parallel executions 
without any output.
- Execute programs as sequential: sequential.py::execute()
    - The output is saved to config.seq_log_file for each program
- Find the programs, if any, that do not print output: preprocess.py::find_empty_log_files()
    - It saves the result in `empty_log_files.log`
- Add print statements to the files according to `empty_log_files.log` 


### DataRaceBench
- Get the DataRaceBench dataset from `https://github.com/LLNL/dataracebench/tree/v1.4.1/micro-benchmarks`
- Keep the micro-benchmarks directory under Seq2ParDiff and rename it to dataracebench
- Delete direcotories: polybench, utilities and benchmarkList.md file from dataracebench

#### Preprocess Dataset
- Use function: preprocess.py::preprocess_dataracebench()

## Differential Testing
- Sequential execution: `python3 sequential.py`
- Parallel execution: `python3 parallel.py`

## Execute CIVL for datasets
- Open file civl.sh and update line 22 with correct path (first part) and dataset name (last part with autoparllm or dataracebench)
- `chmod +x civl.sh`
- For each dataset, execute `./civl.sh`

## Execute ARCHER for datasets
- Open file archer.sh
- Update lines 21 with correct path
- Update line 30 with correct path (first part) and dataset name (last part with autoparllm or dataracebench)
- `chmod +x archer.sh`
- For each dataset, execute `./archer.sh`

## Generate Reports
- Generate execution results of Seq2ParDiff, CIVL and ARCHER
    - `python3 log_parser.py`
    - `python3 civl.py`
- Result files are located under data/<datasetname> directory (i.e., data/autoparllm).
    - Sequential execution (non-determinism): diff_test_seq.csv, diff_test_seq_fails.log
    - Parallel default threads: diff_test_without_env.csv, diff_test_without_env_fails.log
    - Parallel fixed threads: diff_test_with_env.csv, diff_test_with_env_fails.log
    - ARCHER result: archer.csv
    - CIVL result: civl.csv
